Open _ani.xml
Turn off change tracking
Turn off Edit bar - make sure chnage tracking button visible at right end.
Turn off tab icons

-----------------------

 " Eventually you'll probably tire of just viewing binary files and
   actually want to make some changes.

 " First you need to open a file without "read only" selected
- open file open dialog

 " You also would normally not open the file shareable unless you need to.
   That is, only if another program needs to access the file while you are changing it.
- open _ani.xml

 " Even though we did not open the file read-only we can still disallow editing
   within the window by turning off allowing changes using this button (std bar).
- turn off "allow editing"

 " This is a per window setting. We can have more than one window open
   on the same file each with different settings.
- open another window and turn on "allow editing"
- tile vertically and switch between windows

 " If you try to edit in a read-only window HexEdit asks you if you want to allow it
- show that you can't edit in a read-only window
- show that you can edit in the other window

~~~~ 1

 " The other important mode when you are editing is insert mode.
   Most binary files will be completely messed up if you just insert or delete
   bytes anywhere within the file, so HexEdit defaults to overtype mode.
   But HexEdit lets you use Insert mode what you are doing.
   You can toggle between insert and overtype mode using the INS key.

 " In overtype mode any changes you make overwrite the current data.
   If you backspace the bytes are filled with nulls (or spaces in text area).
near right side add some bytes, then backspace (00 in hex area)
switch to char area and backspace (20

 " These modes are always displayed in the status bar using the RO/RW and INS/OVR panes.
   Because I have made the window small for this demo you can't see the panes
   but if I make the window wider ...
   In fact you can toggle these modes by double clicking the pane.
demo

~~~~ 2

 " There is also a toolbar called the Edit bar which has a few relevant buttons.
turn on Edit bar

 " I will go into most of these things in more detail in later videos, but we
   may as well quickly look at the edit bar buttons now.

 " First this is the search tool and to either side of it are buttons to repeat the
   last search forward or backward.

 " The search tool lets you quickly search for bytes as hex. For example, if I type
   in 0D 0A I can serach for the next occurrence of Carriage-return followed by Line-feed.
- search for 0d 0a

 " You can also search for text if you precede the search with an equals sign
- search for "for

 " If you want a case-insensitive search precede if with a tilde (that
   squiggly character at the top-left of your keyboard).
- search for ~for to find "For"

 " There is also a history of your recent searches in the drop list

 " You can see that HexEdit has automatically shown all the occurrences
   of the search string in the file with a green bg. This toolbar pane in fact shows that there
   are 73 occurrences in the whole file.
- show search occ. pane

 " These are a bit distracting at the moment so I will just search for something that will
   not be found to get rid of them.
- search for "xxxxx"

~~~~ 3

 " Next on the Edit bar we have the hex and decimal jump tools.  You can just enter 
   a value into them and press Enter to jump straight to that address.
- enter "3F" in hex jump tool and press Enter

 " One useful features of the jump tools is that as you move the cursor around they
   show the current cursor address.
- move cursor around

 " Another cool feature is that as you enter a value into one tool the corresponding
   hex or decimal value is shown in the other tool.
- Enter "FFF" into hex jump tool

 " In fact you can enter any expression as used in the C language including assigning to variables.
- Enter "Root=1<<3"

 "  So if I assign the value 8 to root I can use that in a calculation
- enter in decimal jump tool: root*2 + 10

 " Next we have the mark buttons that allow you to mark a position and return to it
demo mark pos and return

 " You can also simply set the mark by double-clicking or right-clicking in the window
   and selecting "Mark Position"

 " The mark actually has a lot of other uses which I will talk about in the next video.

 " Next to that we have buttons that allow you to highlight bytes and delete the highlights.
   I have already talked about the highlighter in an earlier video.

~~~~4

 " Finally this last button turns on change tracking.  As you edit the file this will
   show you where bytes have been chnaged and even where they have been inserted and deleted.
   Changed bytes are underlined in the current change-tracking colour (which is red by default).
turn on change tracking
make sure INS mode is off and change some bytes

 " It also shows where bytes have been inserted or deleted if insert mode is on.
turn on INS mode
insert some bytes
select some other bytes with the mouse and delete them

 " Note that change tracking does not keep track of how the changes were made.  It just shows how
   the changes in memory differ from the file in disk.  So if you delete 3 byte then insert 3
   other bytes at the same location then this is equivalent to replacing the 3 bytes.
select 3 bytes and delete them then enter 3 new bytes

~~~~ 5

 " A couple more quick things are first this button with the clock (Keep Same Time on std bar)
   When this is turned on when you save your changes the file modification and access times are
   restored to the same times as before you edited the file.  This is useful in some situations
   where you don't want other software or people to know that a file has been changed.

 " Also on the status bar button is the endian status.  This is only important if you use the
   calculator or commands on the operations menu to modify data.  On Windows machines most
   things are little endian which is the default.  This is why in big-endian mode the BE letters
   are in red.
* widen window, zoom and toggle LE/BE


 " There is a lot more to editing files than this.  For example, we have not even talked about
   selecting with the mouse or keyboard anc copying and pasting to the clipboard which we will
   cover shortly.



