Make sure open dialog, find dialog, calculator are positioned in view
Clear ani_.xml settings: eg mark at start of file, OVR mode
Turn off edit bar and nav bar
Delete info tips for mark

-------------------------
 " In this video we look in depth at a basic feature of HexEdit called the mark which has many uses
open _ani.xml

 " First you may have noticed the light blue highlighting of the first byte of any file you open
   This is the mark which is used to remember a position within each file.

 " You can move the mark by double-clicking or ...
double-click

 " by using the Mark Position command from the Edit menu or the Edit bar
use Edit/Mark/Mark Position

 " You can return to the mark at any time by using the Go To Mark command
use Edit/Mark/Go To Mark

 " There is also a shortcut key for "go to mark" which is Ctrl+F9 in the default keyboard layout
use Ctrl+F9

~~~~1

 " One simple use for the mark is to measure the distance in a file between two bytes
   To do this you place the mark at one byte and as you move the cursor there are
   panes in the status bar that show the distance to the mark.

 " To see these panes I need to first expand this window a little bit
expand window so that "Length" pane of status bar is visible

 "The distance is shown in decimal and hex
set the mark and move the cursor around

make window small again

 " There are a couple of other commands that work with the mark that are on the navigation
   bar which I will just open now
open nav bar

 " The "extend to mark" command selects all bytes from the current cursor position to the mark
   This is useful for making large selections which I will demonstrate later in a video on
   working with large files.
demo

 " You can also do this with the keyboard by holding down the SHIFt key while pressing Ctrl+F9
demo

 " The other command is to swap the cursor with the mark.  This is paricularly use in keystroke
   macros which I will show in a later video on macros.
demo

~~~~2

 " The mark also has many other uses. For example in the Find dialog ...
open find dialog

 " you can restrict searches to only the bytes between the cursor and the mark.
   This can save a lot of time if you want to search only part of a large file.
demo searching for CR-LF in part of the file

 " The calculator has some special buttons that are used with the mark
open calculator

 " The 5 mark buttons *here* work with the mark analogously to the way the buttons above them work
   with the calculator memory.  You can:
  - load the current mark location into the calculator
  - move the mark to the address in the calculator
  - clear the mark - ie just set it back to start of file
  - add the current calcualtor value to the mark
  - subtract the value from the mark
demo the 5 buttons quickly

~~~~3

 " For example, if I wanted to move the mark to be 10 bytes from the end of file I just click
   the EOF button click the minus button and enter 10 then = and click the "Mark Set" (MkS) button.
demo

 " The calculator buttons are recorded in keystroke macros.  The ability to perform
   calculations with the mark is a very powerful feature of macros.

 " There are also two other calculator buttons related to the mark.  These are the "At Mark" (@ Mark)
   and "Store At Mark" buttons which allow you to load and save to the bytes in the file at the mark.

 " The number of bytes you are working with depends on the "Bits" setting. For example, if I want to get
   the byte at the mark I set Bits to 8 and click "@ MArk".
get byte at mark

 " When using the calculator to read and write bytes in a file the byte order is important.
   I can read the bytes with big- or little-endian order.
turn on 64-bit mode and get bytes BE and LE

 # Similarly the Store (At Mark) button allows you to write a calculator value to the file
 " I can't demonstrate the Store At Mark button as I opened the file read-only which is why the button
   is disabled.
~~~~4

 " There are also a few recently added features which make use of the mark.
   Info Tips display a tip window when you hover the mouse over a byte in a file.
open options dialog to Info Tips page

 " They allow you to enter an expression that displays some information about the byte.
   The expression can include many predefined values such as "address" which is the byte
   the mouse is currently over and of course tha address of the mark.
add tip and select drop down

 " One thing we could add would be a distance to mark tip, but actually this is already
   conveniently provided.
turn on distance to mark, make fully opaque

demo distance to mark

~~~~ 5

 " The major new feature in HexEdit 3.5 is the Aerial View.  This provides an overview of the file as a
   coloured bitmap.  One of the things you can see in the AV is the mark both as marching ants
   in the border.

 " Finally, also added in 3,5 was floating templates.  This allows you to create a template
   that can move wherever you want simply by moving the mark.

 " I will just create a simple template now that just displays a 32-bit integer value.
   For a real template the data fields would be much more complicated of course ...

add new template, add 32-bit data field called DATA, format hex
add none field of length "mark" and no name
remove name from end "none" field and turn off design mode

 " Obviously you can do much more powerful thinsg with templates but that is a topic for another
   video.  You will also see the use of the mark in later videos on templates, expressions, calculator
   etc


