http://youtu.be/J_DBkhmXte8
----------
Change date and add some old bookmarks.
Close nav bar
Change date back and add bookmark in temp file then delete the file.
Open _ani.xml and add a few bookmarks.
Make sure bookmarks dialog is half-width (right side), floating but hidden
 - only show cols: name, file, byte no

---------

 " Bookmarks are a simple but very useful way to remember a position to return to later.
   The quick way to add a bookmark is to press Ctrl+F2 which creates an unnamed bookmark.
- use Ctrl+F2 in at least 3 different places

 " Actually, this is more of a toggle - if you are already on top of a bookmark then
   the bookmark is deleted.
- Ctrl+F2 a few times to add/delete

 " There are also several toolbar buttons that are used for bookmarks which appear on
   the Navigation bar which I will turn on now.
- turn on nav bar

 " Using the bookmark button toggles a bookmark just like Ctrl+F2
- click bookmark buttons a few times
 
 " This drop menu has buttons for the next and previous bookmarks in the file
   but you can also use F2 and SF2
- open drop list, use next, use previous

 " This button will remove all bookmarks in the current file while this one will hide
   all bookmarks without actually deleting them.
- hide bookmarks then show again

 " Next to that is the bookmark tool which displays a drop list of all the bookmarks in the current file.
   Note that as you move the cursor through the file it shows the nearest bookmark above the cursor posn.
- demo moving caret and bookmark name changing

 " You can also quickly jump to any bookmark in the file by selecting it from the drop list
- demo jump to bookmarks
~~~~1

 " A more powerful way to work with bookmarks is to use the Bookmarks dialog
   which you can open from the Edit menu or just right click the menu bar and select it.
- open bookmarks dialog

 " The bookmarks dialog is a modeless dialog so you can leave it open.
   It moves out of the way of the cursor when floating.
- demo moving out of the way while adding a few more bookmarks

 " Like all modeless dialogs you can dock it to the side of the HexEdit window
- dock on left

 " You might have noticed that the unnamed bookmarks we created using Ctrl+F2 actually do have a name 
   that starts with "unnamed".

 " To add a named bookmark just click the New Bookmark button and type a new name.
- demo adding a few named bookmarks

 " The bookmarks dialog has several columns which you can turn on and off using the 
   list that appears when you right-click on any column header.
- Turn on/off a few columns

 " The name column is just the name you gave to the bookmark, while the file column has the name of the
   file and the folder has the location of the file.
   
 " The Modified column says when you created or moved the bookmark.  The Accessed column says when you
   last jumped to that bookmark.  You can also sort on any column by clicking its header.
- turn on last-accessed column and resize/sort the column

 " You can easily rename a bookmark by clicking its name and typing a new one
- rename a bookmark

 " You can also delete one or more bookmarks using the Delete button.  For example, say you want to
   delete all bookmarks you haven't used this year.  Just sort by last accessed time and select
   the old ones and click the Delete button.
- demo deleting

 " Be careful when deleting bookmarks as once they are gone you can't get them back.
   This is unlike highlights which are fully undoable.
   
 " You may also have noticed that there are bookmarks here with the same name.  In earlier versions
   of HexEdit bookmark names had to be unique but now you can use the same name in different files.
~~~~2

 " This reminds that I should explain that bookmarks are kept in a global list.  They are not associated
   with the file as other information (such as highlights) is.
   
 " This is the main reason you cannot undo bookmarks.  However, there are advantages to this system. 
   You can jump to a bookmark even when the file it is in is not open.

- select bookmark from _bmp.xml in the list

 " This bookmark is in a file that is not open.  If I double-click it (which is a shortcut for jumping
   to a bookmark) then the file is opened automatically to display the bookmark.
- double-click the bookmark to open _ani.xml

 " Finally I should explain the Validate button.  Since a bookmark is stored separately from the file
   that it points to it is possible to have bookmarks pointing to files that no longer exist.
   Or you could have a bookmark for a location past EOF for a file that has been shortened.
   The Validate button checks for these and deletes or moves them.
- click the Validate button

 " There is also a drop-down menu that controls how validation is done.
   For example you may not want to remove bookmarks that are on a network drive or on
   a USB stick even if HexEdit cannot currently find them.

 " One thing you should watch out for is that you can't add a bookmark to a new file until it
   has been written to disk. If I create a new file then you can see that the Add button
   in the bookmarks dialog is disabled.
- create a new file (prompt for file name now option off)

 " There are a lot of ways that bookmarks are integrated with other parts of HexEdit and
   I will cover them in another video shortly
~~~~3

