Change date and add some old bookmarks.
Change date back and add bookmark in temp file then delate it.
Make sure bookmarks dialog is hidden and accessed+modified cols turned off.


---------

 " Bookmarks are a simple but very useful way to remember a position to return to later.
   The quick way to add a bookmark is to press Ctrl+F2 which creates an unnamed bookmark.
use Ctrl+F2 to add at least 3 bookmarks

 " Actually, this is more of a toggle - if you are already on top of a bookmark then it is deleted.
Ctrl+F2 a few times to add/delete

 " You can quickly step through all bookmarks in a file using F2 to move forward and SF2 to go backward.
F2 and SF2

 " There are also several toolbar buttons that are used for bookmarks which appear on the Navigation bar.
turn on nav bar

 " This drop list has buttons for the next and previous bookmarks that we saw above.
open drop list

 " This button will remove all bookmarks in the current file while this one will hide bookmarks
   while not actually deleting them.
hide bookmarks then show again

~~~~1

 " Next to that is the bookmark tool which displays a drop list of all the bookmarks in the current file.
   Note that as you move the cursor through the file it shows the nearest bookmark above the cursor posn.
demo moving caret and bookmark name changing

 " You can also quickly jump to any bookmark in the file by selecting it from the drop list
demo jump to bookmarks

 " You will have noticed that the unnamed bookmarks we created using Ctrl+F2 actually do have a name 
   that starts with "unnamed".

 " A more powerful way to work with bookmarks is to use the Bookmarks dialog.
   For example, you can give any name to a bookmark you create.
open bookmarks dialog

 " The bookmarks dialog is a modeless dialog so you can leave it open.
   It moves out of the way of the cursor when floating.
demo moving out of the way while adding a few more bookmarks

 " Like all modeless dialogs you can also dock it to the side of the HexEdit window or roll it up.
demo roll up then dock on left

 " To add a named bookmark just enter a name and click the Add button.
demo adding a few named bookmarks

~~~~2

 " The dialog has several columns which you can turn on and off using the list that appears when
   you right-click on any column header.
Turn on/off a few columns

 " The name column is just the name you gave to the bookmark, while the file column has the name of the
   file and the folder has the location of the file.

 " The Modified column says when you created or moved the bookmark.  The Accessed column says when you last
   jumped to that bookmark.  You can also sort on any column by clicking its header.
turn on last-accessed column and resize as column

 " You can also delete one ore more bookmarks using the Delete button.  For example, say you want to delete
   all bookmarks you haven't used this year.  Just sort by last accessed time and select the old ones
   and click the Delete button.
demo deleting

 " Be careful when deleting bookmarks as once they are gone you can't get them back.

 " This reminds that I should explain that bookmarks are kept in a global list.  They are not associated
   with the file as other information (such as highlights) is.  So when you delete a bookmark you
   cannot undo the deletion.

 " However, there are advantages to this system.  You can jump to a bookmark even if the file is not open.
   This bookmark is in a file that is not open.  If I double-click it (which is a shortcut for jumping
   to a bookmark) then the file is opened automatically bfore the cursor is positioned at the bookmark.
close file then go to one of its bookmarks

~~~~3

 " Finally I should explain the Validate button.  Since a bookmark is stored separately from the file
   that it points to it is possible to have bookmarks pointing to files that now longer exist.
   Or you could have a bookmark pointed past the end of file for a file that has been shortened.
   The Validate button checks for these and deletes or moves them.

 " You may have bookmarks to files that are on a network or removeable media.  You may not want to remove
   these bookmarks when you validate the bookmarks since the files may come back later.
   This checkbox allows you to preserve bookmarks on network or removeable drives.

 " The power of bookmarks also comes from how it is integrated with other parts of HexEdit.
   For example, when you do a search using the Find dialog you can just ask that all
   found occurrences be bookmarked for later reference.

~~~~ 4

 " One thing you should watch out for is that you can't add a bookmark to a new file until it
   has been written to disk. If I create a new file then you can see that the Add button
   in the bookmarks dialog is disabled.
demo

 " Bookmarks are stored in a file on disk and every bookmark needs a filename.
   If you share your computer and are worried about privacy there is an option to delete
   all bookmarks or automatically delete them when you close the program.
   All this does is delete the bookmarks file from disk.
demo

 " Another option is if you hold the mouse over a bookmark you can see a tip window that shows its name.
   That is, as long as you have the bookmarks checkbox on in the Info Tips options page
demo

 " There is also a context menu for bookmarks that appears when you right click any bookmark.
   You can customize this menu just like the other context menus.
demo

- bm colours (scheme)

~~~~ 5

 " You can also use bookmarks in the jump tools
demo

- expressions
  - don't use names that could be hex number
  - jump tools
  - calculator
  - use with macros
  - same bookmark name in different files

- aerial view
~~~~6
