http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKAKiXkF6yU

open _bmp.xml
position cursor/mark at start
reset display: font, char set, colour scheme ...

---------------------------
  " In this video we will look at some more display options.

* Font
  " First you can set the display font.
- select View/Font

  " I prefer good old Courier but there are
    advantages to a scaleable font like a TrueType font.
    You can choose any font you want but its probably best to pick a
    fixed width or non-proportional font like "Lucida Console"
- Select Lucida Console 12

  " You can also quickly change the font size using these buttons
- demo font inc/dec buttons
  " Or by holding down the control key and using your mouse wheel.
    The control mouse wheel is used for zoom in many programs nowadays
    like Word, Internet Explorer, etc but HexEdit has always had this.
- demo Ctrl+wheel

~~~~ 1

* Character set
 " This drop down list allows you to select the character set used in the character area.
- mouse over char set drop down
   I could spend half an hour explaining characters sets but basically
   they say the character drawn when you send a byte to the screen or printer.
- switch to ANSI

 " In brief ASCII is or was just about the only character set used for a
   long time.  EBCDIC was the character set used on many larger IBM computers
   and is still used in a lot of old file formats.  Generally in Windows we
   use an ANSI character set which is an extension to ASCII.
- switch to EBCDIC
 " The IBM/OEM option is not so much a character set but refers to the 256
   graphics symbols used in the original IBM PC and OEM clones.  It's generally
   only used in MSDOS programs, mainly games.
- switch to IBM/OEM

~~~~ 2

 " One thing to watch out for is that under Windows there are a separate group
   of fonts for this character set so HexEdit has to keep track of a separate
   font for when you are displaying the IBM/OEM character set.
- Open Font dialog again
- switch to char mode

 " I guess I should mention that nowadays Unicode is gaining in popularity
   but Unicode uses 16-bits to store all it characters and since HexEdit is byte
   oriented it does not display Unicode in the character area, though it is
   extensively supported in other areas such as searches, template strings etc.
- switch to ASCII char set

* colour scheme
 " You also might have noticed that when we changed between character sets
   the colours of the display changed.  There are 4 automatic colour schemes
   which are switched between so you can quickly recognise what character
   set you are using.
- switch to ANSI, EBCDIC
- switch back to hex+char areas
~~~~~ 3

 " You can customize these colour schemes or even create your own.
   You can even have a different colour scheme for each type of file
   based on file extension.

 " It is very easy to switch between colour schemes by simply using this drop down list.
   But to create and modify colour schemes you need to use the Options dialog
   which I will talk about later.
- switch to black and white colour scheme
- switch back to ASCII char set
~~~~ 4

 " Finally you can also change how control characters are displayed when in ASCII or ANSI mode.
   Most hex editors display control chars just as dots in the char area.
- demo control char drop down
- switch back to ASCII colour scheme

 " Since this is a text file the only control characters are carriage return and line feed.
   The "alpha" option just says to display an alphabetic character - so carriage return
   which is control-M is displayed as an M

- red, green in ASCII scheme

 " The C/C++ option displays characters as their escape sequence so
   carriage return which is backslash R is shown as an 'r'.

 " You can distinguish control charcaters from normal ones by their colour if the colour scheme
   says to display control characters in a different colour.

 " I'll just add some more control charcaters to the file.  CR and LF are control chars
   that appear in text files so they are green is this colour scheme.  Other control chars
   are red
- add some control chars

 " In the next video we will look how to change the format of the display such as columns.


