http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoTy4wZ22EE

----------------
open HexEdit.exe - reset file options
turn on autofit, ASCII mode
open edit bar
turn on background searches
----------------
 " This is a quick video on the HexEdit status bar which is this bit at the bottom of
   the window.  First you can turn off the status bar but I recommend you always
   leave it visible as it provides a lot of functionality for very little space.
- toggle it with View/Status Bar

 " On the left side of the status bar are shown information messages and sometimes
   a progress bar for long operations.  Also as you move the mouse over a menu item
   or toolbar button a description of the command is displayed.
- move mouse over menu items and toolbar

 " Next to that are several panels or "panes".  The first pane next to the message area
   with the binoculars icon displays the number of search occurrences.
- search for "program"
- ZOOM on the status bar

 " A background search in a large file may take some time so the pane also shows a 
   small progress bar when the search is in progress.  It should take a while to search
   for a single null byte so I'll try that to show the progress bar.
- search for "00"

 " Finally, if background searches are disabled then this just shows the word "OFF".
- open options dialog (Workspace/Edit) and turn searches off
- ZOOM on the status bar

~~~~1

 " To see the other panes in this small area I need to expand the window.
   Typically you can see all the panes as most screens are more than wide
   enough.  However for YouTube I have to stick to a video width of 600 pixels.
- turn on autofit and widen window on left

 " The next pane shows information about the byte at the cursor position.  This changes
   as you move around the file. It shows the values as hex, decimal, octal and binary and
   the current character.
- move the cursor around

 " Control characters like this Ctrl+A are shown like this.
- move to 01 byte

 " Of course, in EBCDIC mode it shows EBCDIC characters.
- turn on EBCDIC and move to EBCDIC text character

 " You can see similar information but a lot more of it in the Properties dialog
   which you can simply bring up by double-clicking this pane.

~~~~2

 " The next 2 panes are the distance to mark panes.  I will explain the mark later but
   in brief you can place the mark on any byte of the file by double-clicking on it.
- set the mark

 " Then as you move the cursor around, these panes show the distance to the mark
   in hex and decimal.
- move the caret around including before the mark

 " Double-clicking the hex pane bring up the calculator in hex mode so that you
   calculate a new address to jump to.  This is just like invoking the Edit/Goto command.
- dclick hex pane

 " Similarly, double-clicking the decimal pane brings up the calculator in decimal mode.

~~~~3
 " The next pane just shows the file length in hex or decimal depending on how addresses
   are shown.
- toggle hex/decimal addresses and ZOOM

 " If you have inserted or deleted bytes in the file this also shows the difference in
   length of the file in memory with the file that is on disk.
- insert and then delete some byte
- ZOOM on the pane

 " These last panes show the status of some on/off settings.
   You can generally toggle these by double-clicking their pane.

 " This one toggles between big and little-endian byte order.  This is only used when
   multi-byte values are written to the file, for example using commands on the Operations
   menu or by using one of the "Store @" buttons in the calculator.
- toggle BE/LE and ZOOM
 " Because Windows machines usually use little-endian byte order, the BE for big-endain is
   displayed in red to be noticeable.

~~~~4

 " The RO/RW panes says whether you can edit the file in the window. RO=readonly RW=read/write
- dclick a few times - leave in RW mode

 " The OVR/INS says whether the window is in overtype or insert mode.  The default is OVR
   mode as generally you don't want to insert or delete bytes in binary files.
   You can toggle this using the INS key or by double-clicking the pane.
- dclick a few times

 " The REC pane say whether you are recording a keystroke macro.

 " The final CAP and NUM panes say whether caps-lock and num-lock are on.
   Its probably easier to look at your keyboard lights for this though.

 " One final thing to note is that the status bar has its own context menu.
   Many parts of the HexEdit display have associated popup menus that appear
   when you right click them.  You can add commands to the status bar context
   menu.
