


--------------------------------
open _exe.xml
make sure aerial view is off
clear calculator, set to 32-bit, decimal
reset rainbow colour scheme - remove nul, adjust range1 and range12, SAVE
make sure autocroll accel is fast
turn off highlight for marching ants
turn off edit bar
--------------------------------
 " Aerial View is a new feature in HexEdit 3.5.  It allows you to get
   a high-level view of a file sort of like an aerial photograph.
- turn on aerial view in splitter

 " This is the aerial view of _exe.xml which is a text file.
   Each byte of the file is represented by one pixel in the aerial view.
- widen the aerial view to see all the file
 " If I just widen the aerial view a little you can see the whole file at
   once - this file is about 80,000 bytes which is not exactly small.

 " Each square or pixel of the aerial view represents one byte of the source file.
   Because the default colour scheme is "ASCII default" you can see that this file
   just contains text (the black areas) plus some CRs, LFs & tabs (green dots)
   If we change to a different colour scheme the aerial view changes to match.
- switch to EBCDIC default colour scheme

 " Typically you would use aerial view to investigate a binary file
   about which nothing is known.  I'll just create a random file of
   10 million bytes.
- create a 10 MByte file with random data, prompt for disk now

~~~~1

 " We'll set the colour scheme first to save time.  For unknown data the 
   best colour scheme to use is probably "rainbow".
- switch to rainbow colour scheme

 " For a large file you might want to open the aerial view in a tabbed
   window to see as much as possible.
- open aerial view in tabbed window

 " This is the typical look for compressed or encrypted data or any type
   of seemingly random bytes.
- switch to hex view tab

 " Say we are interested in finding bytes with all bits on and all bits off
   I'll add a block of data with all bits off near the start of file.
- make selection about 10% through the file
 " I can just use the assign byte command which takes the current calculator
   value as long as we are in 8-bit mode
- open calc, switch to 8-bit, CE
- Operations/Assign/Byte

~~~~2

 " And a block of data with FFs near the end of file
- make selection near the END of file
- open calc switch to hex mode, and enter FF
- Operations/Assign/Byte

 " And just for good measure I'll add a block of text in the middle
- Edit/Insert - size:20000, string:this is a test, ASCII

 " Now since we are particularly interested in NUL and FF bytes I'll tweak
   the colour scheme to highlight them.
- open Options dialog to the colour scheme page
 " I need to add a range just for nul bytes and move to the top
   just to keep things neat
- insert range - name: Nul, colour: white values:0 and move up

 " Also if I change the last range to end at 254 not 255 then any FF
   bytes will be handled by the catch all at the end and displayed in black
- change range12 to be 234:254

~~~~3

 " If you see a part of the data that looks to be of interest you can just
   double-click on it and the byte will be selected in the hex view.
- dclick part of text area and switch to hex view

 " If you just want to inspect an area more closely you can simply
   zoom in.  You can do this with the context menu...
- right-click and select zoom=2

 " ... but a better way is to zoom by holding down the control key while
   using the mouse wheel.  This not only zooms quickly but the mouse is kept
   positioned over the current pixel so you don't loose your place.
- zoom with ctrl+mouse wheel at start of text area

 " The Aerial view is also very useful for getting an overview of other
   things like where in the file all your bookmarks or found search
   occurrences are.

 " You can see these in two ways - in the left border of the aerial view,
   or as marching ants.  To turn on any of these options just use the
   aerial view context menu by right-clicking.
- right-click aerial view and show In Border and Marching Ants sub-menus

~~~~4

 " I'll add a few highlights now to demonstrate
- switch to hex view, add some higlights, switch back to aerial view

 " I'm not sure how well you can see the it since they're yellow.
- turn on marching ants for highlights and set zoom to 4
- ZOOM (Ctrl+Alt+Z)

 " When working with large selections I find the selection options
   particularly useful to make sure that you have selected exactly
   the area of the file you think you have.

 " Say I wanted to select from the start of the nul bytes block
   to the end of the FFs
- switch to hex view and select from 00s to FFs

 " I can see instantly in the aerial view border border that I have
   roughly selected the right bytes
- switch back to aerial view and use context menu to zoom out

 " I can even zoom in on the start or end of the selection to make
   sure it starts or ends on the exact byte
- zoom in on start to see the ants
- ZOOM

~~~~5

 " Aerial view works with any size file but for large files there
   is not enough memory to represent each byte with one pixel.
   The largest files I have on disk are AVI files, so I'll open
   one now.
- go to H:\shared\video\RawVideo and turn on details, sort by size
- open largest .AVI file (at least 5 Gbytes)

 " Most of this file looks fairly grey which to me means that it
   is compressed in some way, but there are these regular black
   and white areas which are probably part of some sort of record header.

 " If I want to look at one of these headers I can double-click it.
- dclick a header and switch to hex view

 " You can see that 64 bytes are selected so each aerial view pixel
   corresponds to 64 bytes.  But even then the colour
   of the pixel is the average colour for all the bytes so there
   is still a lot of info in each and every pixel.
- dclick a pixel that has multiple contributing colours

~~~~6

  " HexEdit works like this as some machine do not have a lot of memory.
    It actually adapts to the amount of system memory available but
    never creates am aerial view bitmap larger than 1 GBytes currently.
    However, in the next version of HexEdit there will be an option
    to set the largest aerial view bitmap size.


 " We've looked at 3 different file types here but as you work with
   others you will begin to recognise various data patterns and what
   sort of data a type of file should contain.

- xxx perhaps open another file with interesting data

 " Also since the pixels are arranged into lines when the window is
   resized the pixels an align in different way.  Resizing the window
   can reveal interesting patterns.
- resize to see patterns

